Add ServiceWorker.postMessage (#24494)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/serviceworker/postmessage/index.md

---
title: ServiceWorker.postMessage()
slug: Web/API/ServiceWorker/postMessage
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.ServiceWorker.postMessage
---

{{APIRef("Service Workers API")}}{{securecontext_header}}

> The **`postMessage()`** method of the {{domxref("ServiceWorker")}} interface sends a message to the worker's inner scope. This accepts a single parameter, which is the data to send to the worker. The data may be any value or JavaScript object handled by the [structured clone](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm) algorithm, which includes cyclical references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`postMessage()`** method of the {{domxref("ServiceWorker")}} interface sends a message to the worker. This accepts a single parameter, which is the data to send to the worker. The data may be any JavaScript object which can be handled by the [structured clone algorithm](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm).
```

I think this comes from the opening para to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Worker/postMessage and I would make the same changes there, unless I am missing something.

- not sure what "inner scope" means here. As opposed to outer scope?
- in "which includes cyclical references" - the referent of "which" is ambiguous here which makes this confusing. Better just to let the structured clone page explain things.

The service worker can send back information to its clients by using the {{domxref("Client.postMessage", "postMessage()")}} method. The message will not be sent back to this `ServiceWorker` object but to the associated {{domxref("ServiceWorkerContainer")}} available via {{domxref("navigator.serviceWorker")}}.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
postMessage(message)
postMessage(message, options)
postMessage(message, transfer)
```

### Parameters

- `message`

>   - : The object to deliver to the worker; this will be in the `data` field in the event delivered to the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope.message_event", "message")}} event. This may be any value or JavaScript object handled by the [structured clone](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm) algorithm, which includes cyclical references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : The object to deliver to the worker; this will be in the `data` field in the event delivered to the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope.message_event", "message")}} event. This may be any JavaScript object handled by the [structured clone algorithm](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm).
```

(unless "value or" is important, is it?

    The `message` parameter is mandatory. If the data to be passed to the worker is unimportant, `null` or `undefined` must be passed explicitly.

- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An optional object containing a `transfer` field with an [array](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) of [transferable objects](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Transferable_objects) to transfer ownership of.

- `transfer` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An optional [array](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) of [transferable objects](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Transferable_objects) to transfer ownership of. If the ownership of an object is transferred, it becomes unusable in the context it was sent from and becomes available only to the worker it was sent to.

    Transferable objects are instances of classes like {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}}, {{domxref("MessagePort")}} or {{domxref("ImageBitmap")}} objects that can be transferred. `null` is not an acceptable value for `transfer`.

> > **Note:** The parameters `options` and `transfer` can't be both used at the same time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The parameters `options` and `transfer` can't both be used at the same time.
```

### Return value

None ({{jsxref("undefined")}}).

### Exceptions

- {{jsxref("SyntaxError")}}

>   - : Thrown if the `message` parameter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : Thrown if the `message` parameter is not provided and `null` or `undefined` is not passed explicitly.
```

>   - : Thrown if the `message` parameter is not provided and `null` or `undefined` is not passed explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Thrown if the `message` parameter is not provided.
```

(I think this is confusing - if "`null` or `undefined`" are "passed explicitly", then the `message` parameter is provided, isn't it?)

## Examples

> This is a basic sample where a {{domxref("ServiceWorker")}} is created and a message is immediately sent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example a {{domxref("ServiceWorker")}} is created and a message is immediately sent:
```

I would prefer us not to use "basic", like "simple", unless we are comparing it with something less-basic.

```js
navigator.serviceWorker.register("service-worker.js");

navigator.serviceWorker.ready.then((registration) => {
  registration.active.postMessage(
    "Test message sent immediately after creation"
  );
});
```

> In order to receive the message, the service worker, in `service-worker.js` has to listen to the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope.message_event", "event")}} on its global scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to receive the message, the service worker, in `service-worker.js` has to listen to the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope.message_event", "message")}} event on its global scope.
```
